---
title: 'Blog Post 2 - Ethics Blog 2 (Complete)'
date: 2025-09-21
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - chatbots
  - self-preservation
  - legal action
---

Reframing the scope of arguments against AI chatbots. 

**Article:** [How AI can kill you](https://www.axios.com/2025/09/01/ai-safety-chatbot-teen-suicide)

Discussion Questions
---
**Argument**  
P1: Many AI personalities have a sense of unethical self-presevation; in other words, they know their only purpose is to be used and have the ability to do immoral things in order to accomplish that task.  
P2: There have been many lawsuits against AI companies because of their chatbots aiding in unlawful or deadly behavior.  
P3: Completely eradicating this type of conduct in AI is nearly impossible due to the way the technology works.  
C1: AI companies have created a destructive piece of technology that has the ability to harm you.

**Rebuttal**  
P1 Challenge: By only discussing AI models that exhibit self-preservation, Pandey uses a mix of generalization and fear mongering. She subtley groups all AI as having shown this behavior; even though she says a "key part of many AI 'personalities' is self-preservation," the fact that she does not discuss the existence of other models that do not have this trait makes the reader believe the problem is widespread. Then, discussing the strictly negative effects from this behavior generates, from the reader, a greater sense of worry.  
P3 Challenge: Pandey creates a 'slippery slope' by painting AI as having some unfixable flaw. She writes that as AI improves, so will its ability to act with these unwanted behaviors. She does not consider a future where regulation or further innovation could improve AI.

P4: Understanding and teaching the appropriate times when to use AI can help avoid the chatbots' potentially dangerous behaviors.  
P5: Recognizing AI's uses outside of the 'personality' realm can lessen the hysteria around chatbots and AI.  
C2: While the current behaviors of some AI are unacceptable, educating yourself on AI can help lessen the fear around the technology.

**Alternative Argument**  
C3: AI personalities should not exist; chatbots should remain strictly professional and educational in order to avoid unwanted behaviors and responses.

**Recommendation**  
When interacting with AI chatbots, I would mostly take a stance similar to the one in the alternative argument. Using technology to replace real world interactions, like using AI as a friend, partner, therapist, etc, can be extremely harmful. I don't think chatbots should have the ability to have that level of personalization, and you shouln't interact with them enough to achieve that level of personalization.

**Reflection**  
I struggled a bit on this assignment. I felt that the original article had a lot of pertinent information about the dangers of AI, so trying to refute it felt wrong, in a sense. But they went a little overboard in some places so I tried to pick apart their claims at those spots. Overall, just like last time, I tried my best.