---
title: 'Blog Post 1 - Ethics Blog 1'
date: 2025-09-16
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - environment
  - data centers
  - Mexico
---

Some thoughts on the environmental impact of large data centers.

**Article:**  [Thirsty data centres boom in drought-hit Mexico](https://www.bbc.com/news/articles/cx2ngz7ep1eo)

Discussion Questions
---
**Article Justification:** This article caught my eye because of two main reasons: the publisher and the topic. First, I chose an article written by BBC in order to limit the impact of possibly-skewed media sources. BBC ranks well for unbiased reporting, being categorized as either center or left-center ([AllSides](https://www.allsides.com/news-source/bbc-news-media-bias), [Ad Fontes Media](https://adfontesmedia.com/bbc-bias-and-reliability/)). Secondly, I chose this specific article to understand the possible impacts of AI on the environment, especially in developing countries like Mexico ([World Bank](https://www.worldbank.org/en/country/mexico/overview)) where large data centers exist.

**Ethics Response:** In the BBC article “Thirsty data centres boom in drought-hit Mexico,” technology reporter Suzanne Bearne discusses the effects of Querétaro, Mexico’s large data centers. A main source of ethical tension is sourced from uncertainties about fresh water allocation. “To stop data centres melting down, elaborate cooling systems are needed which can use huge amounts of water,” says Bearne. While she highlights that “not all data centres consume water at the same rate,” some citizens of Querétaro are uneased by the centers’ presence, especially after the city faced its worst drought in decades. "Private industries are being prioritised in these arid zones," says Querétaro activist Teresa Roldán. “Citizens are not receiving the same quality of the water than the water that the industry is receiving." Here we see an emphasis on duty/deontological theory, where activists are fighting to ensure water’s continuation as a basic human right. However, government officials and the data centers themselves are defending their decision. A spokesperson for the Querétaro government states "We have always said and reiterated that the water is for citizen consumption, not for the industry;” water allocation is “a job for the National Water Commission.” This deference of responsibility is also seen in a statement made by Arturo Bravo, the Mexico country manager at Ascenty. "We operate under the terms and conditions specified by authorities, which, in turn, in my perspective, are the ones taking care of the fact that those conditions are acceptable for the communities around and the health of everybody." He states that "I do see it just kind of progressing and progressing, with a new data centre there every few years… The industry will continue to grow as AI grows. It's a great future in terms of what is coming." From these statements, we could possibly see the growth of a utilitarian approach, where industrial benefit and economic growth is put above the well being of the masses. 

**Reflection:** I feel that this assignment went as well as it could have. There are still parts that I am unsure about, like how exactly to discuss the ethical frameworks and how to conclude the blog post (if a conclusion is necessary). I tried to make the response flow naturally as a paragraph, but that might have limited me in my ability to further discuss the ethical tensions present in the article. All in all, I just tried my best.
