---
title: 'Blog Post 12 - Final Reflection (Awaiting Grading)'
date: 2025-12-07
permalink: /posts/2025/12/blog-post-12/
tags:
  - yay
  - reflect
  - woo
---

Reflecting on the structure and content of the blog posts, amongst other things.

The Reflection
---
**Part 1: Superlatives**  
*Most Frustrating | Blog Post 1 - Ethics 1*  
This blog was the most frustrating for me mostly due to my own timeliness (for once). I completed this blog before there was an official rubric posted; therefore, I needed to complete a revision after I had already put in a quantifiable amount of effort in. But I definitely feel much better at writing blogs than I did way back in September!

*Most Fun | Blog Post 11 - Privacy 1*  
Okay, the actual case study for this blog post was a bit of a snooze. BUT! It generated a lot of ideas and memories as a child who grew up mildly on the internet. I also was very tired when I wrote the majority of this blog, so I had an absolute hoot writing it. I think it is one of my best comedic works (especially the reflection).

*Most Evolved | Blog Post 3 - Algorithms 1*  
This blog evolved in that I did a complete restructuring of its content. At first, it was written in a ‘question-answer’ style, which made for an absolute shit blog. So, I went in and tried to make it flow into paragraphs while still answering the discussion questions. I definitely found my footing with the blog posts as time went on.


**Part 2: The Writing Process**  
*Writing Skills and Growth*  
I feel I have grown a ton! I feel like I can read a text and respond to it more critically. It’s not that I couldn’t do this before, I just feel I make more pertinent connections and have more relevant ideas about things. I did struggle with the blogs at first but, as I said, I was able to find my blog writing rhythm. The only aspect I struggled with was the constant stream of them! They just kept coming, man!

*Process Comparison*  
I definitely prefer blogs over essays. I feel that, since blogs are a little bit less high stakes and occur more often, it feels easier to make mistakes and grow from them, whereas essays are more constricting and formal. I feel that I would not have grown as much as a writer if we did essays.

*Patterns and Habits*  
I first attempted to write my blogs almost like an academic paper (ha, silly me). Over time, I got more comfortable with writing what is essentially a coherent stream of conscience. I was making analytical connections like nobody's business at the end!

**Part 3:  Connecting to Course Content**  
*Topics and Themes*  
I really enjoyed all of the content we went over (although memes might have been a little bit of a stretch). I think it might be interesting to have some days where we do a seminar style class, just to switch it up a bit.

*Knowledge Integration*  
While I didn’t necessarily have an ‘aha’ moment with the blogs, I do feel they helped me be more confident in adding to discussions, generating ideas, and responding to concepts. I really do think they helped me a lot!

**Part 4: The Future**  
*The Website’s Livelihood*  
I think the website was a great idea! Introducing the ability to make a free website through github gets a thumbs up from me. However, the website template we used left something to be desired. I get wanting a semi-blank slate for everyone, but looking at my drab website killed my aesthetic wants. Therefore, the blog shall end with this post (I know, so sad). But I have learned so much about markdown, html, and css from our personal websites and my case study website. So that’s cool!

*Future Writing Identity*  
I think, for my future profession as a CS professor (hopefully), I will become a mostly academic writer. But I also love to write creatively, so I hope to sustain a creative outlet for myself.


*Personal Writing Goals*  
For next semester, I would like to turn all writing assignments in ON TIME! That was the biggest thing I struggled with in this class was doing things in a timely manner. I also feel that, by having that goal, it will hopefully help me not be so worried about perfectionism :)