---
title: 'Blog Post 3 - Algorithms 1 (Needs Revision)'
date: 2025-09-25
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-3/
tags:
  - case study
  - data-driven exceptions
  - frameworks
---

Answering some questions provided by the case study while generating my own.

**Case Study Reading:** [The Right to Be an Exception to a Data-Driven Rule](https://mit-serc.pubpub.org/pub/right-to-be-exception/release/2)

Discussion Questions
---
**Summary**  
The case study *The Right to Be an Exception to a Data-Driven Rule* proposes the idea that data-driven decision aids lack the framework to address exceptions that arise to its given set of rules.

**Discussion Questions**  
1. What is a data-driven rule, and what does it mean to be a data-driven exception? Is
an exception the same as an error?  
  
    A data-driven rule is a rule decision-making aids use to determine the connection between inputs, defined as covariates, and the outputs, defined as recommendations.  

    An exception occurs when a data-driven rule fails.  

    In my opinion, I believe that, yes, an exception is the same as an error, because it causes unexpected or incorrect behavior.  

2. In addition to those listed above, what other factors differentiate data-driven decisions
from human ones?  

    Data-driven decisions do not have qualitative standards that support their decisions. For example, lets say that someone is hiring for a graphic design position. Resumes for this type of job should look very different from a standard Harvard resume template in order to show off the applicants' skills and talents. However, the data-decision aid would most likely only make decisions based on the text it can decipher; no decisions would be made based on the resume's visual appeal. I believe that only a human recruiter could have the capability to make a decision that would best benefit the company.

3. Beyond what is discussed above, what are some of the benefits and downsides of individualization?
  
    Benefits: I could not think of any additional benefits of individualization beyond what was mentioned in the case study.

    Downsides: Attempting to improve through individualization could possibly increase memory usage.

4. Why is uncertainty so critical to the right to be an exception? When the stakes are
high (e.g., in criminal sentencing), is there any evaluation metric (e.g., accuracy) that
can justify the use of a data-driven rule without the consideration of uncertainty?

    Uncertainty (specifically, aleatoric uncertainty) can be irreducible, even with the introduction of individualization.

    I don't think so; I believe uncertainty, especially knowing that it can be irreducible, must be considered when making high stakes decisions.

**New Question**  
Considering the current situation of technology, at what point do you think human intervention is needed to make decisions?  
  
I decided on this question because I think it is very interesting to hear people's opinions on essentially when a generated decision becomes 'valid'. If we were to use a hiring example again, some people might wish to remove the influence of technology right at the beginning and only have a human recruiter, thus hinting at the idea that they believe that decisions made by technology aren't valid. Other might say to have a decision aid select a couple of applicants to interview, but still have a human review their qualifications (semi-valid). Of course, there can be a mixed range of responses, and that's why I find it especially thought-provoking.  
 
**Reflection**  
I feel pretty confident about this blog post, minus the fact that I am not turning it in on time. I feel like I had a better grasp at the actual things I was supposed to do, and I feel I did a good job at doing them.
