---
title: 'Blog Post 5 - Society 1 (Complete)'
date: 2025-10-07
permalink: /posts/2025/10/blog-post-5/
tags:
  - video
  - book
  - democracy
---

Taking notes and asking questions about the relation between technology and democracy.

**Video:** 
[Databite No. 141: Digital Technology and Democratic Theory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dcyPOjnMx-c&list=PLYrf5LyVCF1Nk28nRu8lcCIxtAH3iVGDj&index=23)

The Discussion
---
**Part 1: Video Summary**  
This piece of media is apart of the Databite series- a collection of videos livestreamed and published to YouTube by the independent research institute Data and Society. In this video, they invite a select number of authors and editors of the book "Digital Technology and Democratic Theory" to discuss their ideas and answer questions.

**Part 2: Going Deeper**  
*Point I: Archon Fung*  
The first main discussion point focuses on the chapter co-written by Archon Fung, one of the attendees of the livestream. He structures his ideas by defining his measuring tool, or 'yardstick', for the public sphere of media and then applying it to past and current spheres to see how they compare. The definition is split into two categories: rights and opportunities, and norms and dispositions (aka the structure of the public sphere and how users behave). Each category has its own subcategories, listed below.

Rights and Opportunities
1. right to free expression
2. good and equal chances for expression
3. access to reliable and instructive information
4. good and equal chance to hear a wide range of diverse views
5. good and equal chance to associate and explore common interests and ideas with others

Norms and Dispositions
1. regard for truth
2. common good orientation
3. civility

Through the application of the yardstick to the 20th-century post war public sphere and to the modern, current day public sphere, Fung is able to conclude a series of pros and cons. The past sphere is better at the prevailment of truth and civil discussion, while the modern day sphere includes a more diverse range of views. 

To conclude his segment, Fung argues for a synthesis where we restructure the public sphere to better support the portrayal of media in a democratic way.

*Point II: Seeta Peña Gangadharan*  
The second discussion point brought up by author Seeta Peña Gangadharan centers around the idea of generative data exclusion. In other words, she defines "resisting, rejecting, and refusing tyranny of technological systems" as a type of action-stirring, , self-imposed data exclusion, rather than accessibility, literacy, or privacy-based data exclusions. She begins by bringing up her work with Our Data Bodies, a research initiative striving to examine the intersection of technology and justice. For this research, she, amongst others, interviewed the most systematically oppressed neighborhoods in America. By highlighting this research, she hopes to unite these two ideas to synthesize a better, more democratic nation.

*Point III: Robyn Caplan*  
Robyn Caplan speaks about her chapter about social media platforms' content moderation. She highlights the fact that, since these companies are private, the first amendment that guarantees the freedom of speech does not apply. With this in mind, she talks about her process of interviewing 10 major platforms about their privacy policies in order to understand how these companies engage in content moderation. Three cases were the most consistent across these interviews:
1. artisanal, case-by-case approach
2. industrial
3. community reliance

She is able to conclude that, as companies grow, they move from the artisinal to the industrialized.

**Part 3: Going Beyond**  
It is really interesting watching this video four years in the future. It was only after the frequent references to COVID and Trump being banned off of social media platforms that I realized the true age of this video. I wonder how these authors would respond to the technological and political state of the country today. What would they have to say about the boom in AI in relation to democracy? I feel that AI would do well many of Fung's yardstick measurments; the only problem is it is not a trustworthy source. Therefore, I would think that AI would be viewed as a contamination to the public sphere.

**Part 4: Reflection**  
What a throwback! I can't believe that only four years has passed and yet both the technological and political sphere has changed so much. It was really interesting to contextualize change this way. I feel that I have realized how interconnected society is, and how much that connection relies on technology.