---
title: 'Blog Post 11 - Privacy 1 (Need to Complete and Submit)'
date: 2025-12-02
permalink: /posts/2025/12/blog-post-11/
tags:
  - privacy
  - data permanence
  - sexting (teehee)
---

Deliberating the idea of data permanence in terms of privacy, ethics, and safety.

**Case Study reading:**  
[Complete Delete: In Practice, Clicking 'Delete' Rarely Deletes. Should it?](https://mit-serc.pubpub.org/pub/fesqymtr/release/3?readingCollection=ca73f7c0)

The Discussion
---
**Part 1: Case Study Summary**  
This case study provides information about the true depth of the ‘delete’ button, both with past and modern technology. Then, it delves into this development’s repercussions. 

**Part 2: Going Deeper**  
As a person who grew up during the rise of social media, mobile phones, and other wonderful technological breakthroughs like *My Talking Angela* (the cat game that was rumored to be watching you), I feel like I have been bombarded with the idea of ‘impermanent deletion’. My parents would always warn me that everything I posted, sent, recorded, saved, would forever be on my digital record. Now, obviously my parents didn’t mind a bit of embellishment, but the core value here rings true. ‘Digital footprints’ are real, now more than ever.  

What especially interests me is that I feel most people believe, or in some way recognize, that modern technology and the internet come at the expense of privacy. And the thing is, I feel most people are complacent with that. A wakeup call is needed, and I think this case study does a great job at providing the building blocks for that. I think, to fully help someone grasp the issue of ‘incomplete delete,’ I would show them the remnant data or the remaining backups after a deletion attempt on their own personal devices. That, I feel, would be most impactful.  

Now, remnant data and data backups do have advantages. Every day my phone yells at me saying I haven’t backed up my phone in a while, so I should do that (I’m not paying for more iCloud storage so suck it, Apple). If something were to happen to my phone, I would lose my more recent contacts and photos, both of which I consider pretty important. Having backups of something is not bad, but you have to be aware of what data exists and where. Knowledge is the key thing here.  

And since ‘’knowledge is power,’’ I feel that the idea of irrevocably erasing data should be considered with nuance. If I took a really bad selfie of myself and wanted it to never see the light of day, I think I should be able to have that power. On the other hand, if a business engages in sketchy practices, they should not be able to erase the data highlighting their misdeeds. Overall, I feel that more transparency in the world of data and privacy is needed.  

**Part 3: Going Beyond**  
Since I think there is a balanced nature to the idea of the ‘complete delete,’ do you think that government regulation in the world of data erasure would be beneficial? Or is the situation too nuanced? 

When I think about this question, my mind immediately goes to social media sites. I just checked my Instagram and realized that I had the setting where all of my stories would be archived on. Looking back at all of the random (and frankly hilarious) stuff I have posted was… magical? Frightening? Enlightening? Another interesting verb, perchance?

**Part 4: Reflection**  
This idea of ‘complete delete’ is really pertinent to people’s lives, especially with the amount of pressure children and young adults receive to post and share information about themselves online. It’s a bit scary to think about how the information I might share online could be used against me. Like maybe a recruiter for a future job found my Instagram stories too funny and they didn’t need another personality hire. That would be truly devastating.
