---
title: 'Blog Post 10 - Information 2 (Awaiting Grading)'
date: 2025-11-18
permalink: /posts/2025/11/blog-post-10/
tags:
  - generative artificial intelligence (GAI)
  - copyright
  - intellectual property (IP)
---

Contextualizing a case study about generative artificial intelligence in terms of copyright.

**Case Study Reading:** [ARTificial: Why Copyright Is Not the Right Policy Tool to Deal with Generative AI](https://yalelawjournal.org/forum/artificial-why-copyright-is-not-the-right-policy-tool-to-deal-with-generative-ai)

The Discussion
---
**Part 1: Case Study Summary**  
This case study proposes the inefficiency of copyright as a means to restrict the power of generative artificial intelligence (GAI). The author breaks the article into four parts, with part I defining necessary terms for understanding GAI, part 2 exploring the concept of creativity, part III recognizing ethical concerns, and part IV finally justifying why copyright is an unsuccessful tool for challenging GAI authority.

**Part 2: Going Deeper**  
As I usually do with many issues that arise with AI, I try to contextualize the current world with the past, before the huge boom of generative artificial intelligence. By doing this, I am reminded of a blue and purple galaxy, with a heterochromic-eyed wolf staring straight at me. I am, of course, talking about Jonas Jödicke’s [*Where Light and Dark Meet*](https://www.instagram.com/jojoesart/p/BL8fKEUAJ79/?hl=en), a popular artwork originally released in 2016 that has since been the victim of worldwide art thievery. Personally, I have seen this artwork everywhere, most popularly on sweatshirts and hoodies. 

>“With every one shop that I got to take [items] down, another 10 popped up out of nowhere… I almost wanted to give up on my art, because I felt so devastated that people would just take my work and profit out of it, and I didn't see anything from it.” 
>-- Jonas Jödicke

So, why bring this up? Well, I wanted to show that copyright, even without the complications of generative AI, is already a pretty ineffective system. The only reason Jödicke was able to get justice was because of a social media argument with pop-singer Aaron Carter over the entertainer’s uncredited use of another piece of Jödicke’s, [*Brotherhood*](https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/v1/5d31ceee84694100013ace4d/1667222654731-R2I01WQBCF9AD7IKKTF4/Brotherhood.jpg?format=1500w). The publicity of this interaction drew the attention of intellectual property lawyers, which led to the artist’s collaboration with Edwin James IP.

The issue is generative artificial intelligence adds a level of mystification to the unwarranted use of art. But if copyright isn’t effective, what tools do artists have to fight back? The article offers the idea that utilizing copyright to fight back against AI can “cannibalize creative industries,” but does not give any other alternatives. I fear that if we limit artists’ already bounded ability to protect their work, what other options are left?

**Part 3: Going Beyond**  
If not copyright, what other tools can artists use to protect themselves from generative AI, if any? 

I began to question this during part 2, but I do think it is an important concept to fully consider. 


**Part 4: Reflection**  
Honestly, I am a bit discouraged about the state of the tech industry. I know that, like most industries, it is motivated by the production of wealth. However, I feel we have reached new lows in terms of respect for consumers and non-consumers alike. How can someone pilfer off of someone’s livelihood, especially in a field where there is already a lack of value given to its creators. It just screams of corporate greed and disrespect.

